I appreciate the Suk School
allowing you to return here
at such short notice.
It's been a long time since
I studied here.
But I'm still a Sister first.
My initial scan found no evidence
of an accelerant.
It wouldn't.
The heat source was internal.
An acute imbalance
in her meridian network.
Before this happened,
did you notice any physical changes?
Any signs of distress?
She had a nightmare.
Whatever it was terrified her.
She knew something was coming.
I should have listened.
If this is too difficult,
I can continue on my own.
No, I need answers.
How could something like this happen?
The founding Sisters were willing to die
if it meant following
in Raquella's footsteps.
What is it with you and martyrs?
If you're that eager to off yourself,
there are simpler ways.
The Emperor's Truthsayer
killed just before the royal wedding.
That's no coincidence.
That's an assassination.
You think someone attacked Kasha here?
I'm saying I'd keep my guard up.
The initial physical exam is inconclusive.
Nazir is running more tests.
The results will take time.
I'm leaving for Salusa Secundus.
- Now?
- A message came in with today's ship.
Pruwet Richese is dead.
Burned.
A second attack? At the palace?
Tula...
this is the Burning Truth
Mother Raquella spoke of.
I have to secure the princess.
With Kasha gone,
someone has to fill the void
and protect our plans.
Go.
I can take care of things here.
You don't believe I'm up to the task.
Emotions cloud judgment, Tula.
Hard choices will have to be made.
There is one that will give us
the greatest chance of success.
When have I ever shied away
from hard choices?
It's one that involves Lila.
She needs to connect with her ancestors.
She hasn't had the training.
We've never seen a force like this.
We don't know how to fight it.
You can't accept this
because you care for the girl.
- I raised her.
- But she's not your child.
She is the one who can give us
the answers we need.
We must understand
how this prophecy will unfold.
It's dangerous,
but if you lead her, she'll make it.
You've done it before.
The school is yours until I return.
Putting Lila through the Agony
endangers not just her life.
There are secrets we have gone
to great lengths to keep.
You, me, Francesca, Kasha.
It's a risk we'll have to take.
Sister Theodosia, a word.
I'm departing for Salusa Secundus.
I want you to accompany me.
You're aware of my circumstances?
I wouldn't ask if the situation
weren't dire.
- When do we leave?
- Immediately.
Where is he?
The Emperor regrets he can't be here
to offer his condolences.
He'll join us as soon as he can.
How convenient.
Duke Richese,
we're all devastated by this tragedy,
Javicco included.
Look at him.
Look
at my boy
and tell me that a toy did this.
I understand your anger
but you, along with everyone,
know the risks of thinking machines.
They're unpredictable.
He should never have had one
to begin with.
Before you insinuate
that this is my fault,
you may want to remind yourself
that there is a fleet of fighters
in orbit around this planet,
and that it is still mine.
All I'm saying is, accidents happen.
This one was particularly appalling.
We're all in shock.
Now, if you'll excuse me.
It seems tragedy follows you.
First, your men on Arrakis,
now a death as you arrive here
at the palace.
I wouldn't call it a tragedy.
You don't have to pretend with me,
Your Majesty.
You made your feelings
regarding Pruwet Richese
and the wedding very clear.
No, no, no.
No, when we spoke, if I
made any indication,
you must understand,
I was expressing a private concern.
Of course.
I did not tell you to kill that boy.
But you wanted me to.
What I did, I did for you.
And I can do it again.
No, no. No, this is...
this is madness.
Guards!
Arrest him.
Take him to the suspensor cells.
Keep it quiet. Not a word gets out.
I'll handle it personally, Your Majesty.
Do you know why we separate
infants from their mothers
when a Sister gives birth?
It prevents bonds that one might hold
above the Sisterhood.
That way, we're all equals
to one another.
Why are you asking me?
Before Mother Raquella died...
she experienced a moment
of prescience.
With her last breath,
she prophesized Tiran-Arafel,
a tyrannical force
that we would have to reckon with
that could well destroy us.
Destroy the Sisterhood?
We believe that reckoning is here,
that a new enemy has emerged
to undermine our power.
That's what killed Mother Kasha?
What can we do?
Not us.
You.
We need you to talk to Mother Raquella.
We think she will know how to fight it.
Raquella?
- I'm--
- You...
are her great-great-granddaughter.
If you unlock your genetic memory,
you might be able to access her.
And she can tell us more details
about her premonition.
It takes years to prepare for the Agony.
I...
I only just started.
It is a great risk.
But few have your natural aptitude
and I believe that you can do it.
But it must be your choice.
The stories of your prowess
have transcended time and space.
I've always wondered if they were true.
Am I failing to live up to expectations?
I could use a little more convincing.
Is that so?
Have I proven myself?
Oh, with honor, my dear prince.
I suppose there are worse ways to grieve.
You won't catch me shedding a tear.
I barely knew the little brat.
Father kept us on different planets.
Mine was located in a more remote region
of the universe.
Still, whatever was done to him
did seem especially cruel.
I doubt my family will
ever make peace with it.
And the timing was unfortunate.
Should I be making a hasty retreat then?
Will the Duke use the fleet
to seize the throne
now that he can't marry into it?
The palace is meaningless.
The real power is whoever controls
the desert planet.
The Great Houses, the Spacing Guild,
the Sisterhood.
They all know that.
What matters is those beautiful,
little flecks of orange dust.
Arrakis.
That's where he's from.
Who?
The soldier in custody.
My father thinks I don't pay attention
but I saw our Swordmaster
take him into the cells.
Is this about my brother?
What does your father plan
to do with the fleet?
Haven't you been listening?
He doesn't confide in me.
Another pinch and I'll be useless.
I wouldn't say useless.
This is a disaster.
This is an absolute disaster.
The boy was burned alive
by one of my soldiers.
Soldier from Arrakis?
- Yes.
- How?
He claims to have been swallowed
by a sandworm.
- Claims?
- It's on the surveillance.
You're telling me Desmond Hart
survived an attack by Shai-Hulud?
Yes.
He says the worm gave him a gift.
Some sort of power.
I don't know.
He's obviously insane.
You know who will be blamed for this?
If Richese finds out,
he'll think I issued the order.
Kasha didn't trust that soldier.
- Where was she when I needed her?
- Be calm, Javicco.
We must proceed carefully,
but we can handle this.
And how do you suggest we do that?
Well, you saw the boy's body.
His death was unnatural.
Desmond Hart could still have value.
What do you mean?
There are many who would turn
their weapons against us,
and this man pledges his in our defense.
All I am saying is,
let's not rush to execute
our friends to please our enemies.
What?
Did you mean what you said
about making sacrifices,
becoming a martyr?
At the end of the war,
my family was on the ground
with Rayna Butler
in the Battle of Corrin.
They knew they wouldn't survive
but they bought enough time for the fleets
to come in with pulse atomics
and end the machines for good.
Human life is sacred.
That's why there's no greater honor
than to give it.
And we shouldn't be afraid
because in death,
we'll be reunited with our foremothers.
You really believe that?
Reverend Mothers know better than anyone
that the dead aren't gone.
I wish I was so sure about things.
Mother Tula,
you're preparing the Rossak poison.
It's my own experiment.
Is this for one of our acolytes?
Are they undergoing the Agony?
You can report to Valya
that Sister Lila will be
making her own decision.
And no matter how many spies she sends,
she cannot control everything.
Mother Valya is right to be concerned.
You can't leave the fate of the Imperium
in the hands of one child.
She has the right to choose for herself.
But it's not just Lila's life
that hangs in the balance, is it?
It's the lives of all the women
within these walls.
You're about to meet
the most powerful people in the Imperium.
Every single one of them
has their own agenda
but only one of them is your mission.
The princess.
Make yourself her confidant.
Where is the royal detail?
I didn't tell them we were coming.
Best to catch them unprepared.
What about the Richese situation?
That matter is mine to resolve.
Where is he?
Where is the man who killed my son?
I've already ordered
- a full investigation.
- I know you're hiding him!
Your idiot bastard let it slip!
One of your own soldiers!
I demand you give this suspect to me
and let my people interrogate him
or our contract is void!
Duke Richese,
I've made allowances for your grief.
You wanted an audience,
I've granted you one,
but do not presume to tell me--
Your Majesty.
Mother Superior. This is unexpected.
I came as soon as I heard the news.
Ferdinand, Orla,
there can be no greater tragedy
than that of a promising life
cut short.
The Sisterhood mourns with you.
We all feel the loss of our shared future.
But your information is wrong.
There is no suspect being held in relation
to the death of your son.
If you're lying,
I will take my ships
and your spice operation.
Perhaps, then,
you'll understand the future you've lost.
My Duke, let's not allow our grief
to control our conversation.
Mother Superior is here.
Fine,
but this is not over.
We should take his tongue
for that insolence.
Leave us.
Where is Kasha?
I know she's keeping me in the dark
about this uprising on Arrakis,
but I want to know why.
- Was it by your order?
- Your Majesty,
I have to be the bearer of terrible news.
- Kasha Jinjo is dead.
- She's what?
She was burned.
- A fire?
- No.
From the inside.
I wish to question the suspect
in Pruwet Richese's murder.
As I said,
there is no suspect.
Your Majesty,
whatever reasons you have
for keeping this truth from the Duke,
I'm sure they're well-intentioned
but you are holding someone
regarding this murder.
And if he is behind the boy's death,
I believe he may be behind
Mother Kasha's death as well.
The man is my prisoner.
- I will deal with him.
- Javicco...
it's not every day we are fortunate enough
to have the Mother Superior
of the Sisterhood
as our personal Truthsayer.
Very well.
My wife has always been
a champion of debate.
So be it.
You can have your interrogation.
No, that can't be true.
Remember your practice.
Step outside your body.
Allow your awareness
to extend to your nerves,
to the flow of your blood.
Good.
Kasha was proud of the woman
you've become, Princess Ynez.
She wrote to us, told us how well you were
excelling in your studies.
She was sure that, one day,
you would become a Reverend Mother,
and I can see now that that's true.
Take me away from here, please.
I still want to go with you and study.
The Sisterhood wants that for you too.
I must confer with your father.
In the meantime,
Sister Theodosia will take care of you.
She's one of our most promising acolytes.
You and she were set to be dormmates.
- And you may still be.
- We will be.
I'm sure of it.
So what do you want to know?
I can tell you about our classes.
The library's amazing.
Some volumes date back
to the use of wood pulp.
I want you to tell me
exactly how Kasha died.
Desmond Hart.
Who are you, really?
Nothing but a soldier of the Imperium.
Oh, come now, you're more than that.
I wouldn't dare lie to you,
Mother Superior.
Where are you from?
Balut.
Harsh world for a child.
What brought you to the palace?
Faith.
I would advise against
playing games with me.
I will win.
I have nothing to hide.
Can you and your Sisters say the same?
- I'm not the one in the cell.
- Not yet.
Did you kill Pruwet Richese?
I did.
- You admit to treason?
- I admit to justice.
On whose authority
did you pass that sentence?
Did you kill Reverend Mother Kasha?
She was unworthy
to stand beside the Emperor.
I saw the corruption in her heart.
The same way I see the blood trailing
your every step.
"See"?
How do you mean?
Shai-Hulud took my eye
and granted me with a gift
to see what even you cannot.
Who do you serve?
The Imperium.
And only the Imperium.
He speaks truth as he believes it,
but what he claims is a lie.
I saw your Truthsayer for what she was.
She undermined your instincts
and chipped away at your power
until you had to grovel before lesser men.
Emperor, by his own admission,
this man is a murderer.
Thank you, Mother Superior.
I think we've heard all we need to.
You've given us much to consider.
What's to consider?
He sabotaged the wedding
and murdered the woman
who'd seen through his lies.
Halfway across the universe,
in the same timespan?
I leave it to you to explain to me how.
Until there is proof,
I command you to keep this to yourself.
This would turn the Imperium
into a circus of
fear and rumor.
That is all.
Return the prisoner to suspension.
- Once I--
- You need to get the Duke in hand.
My counsel has its limits,
especially under such exceptional
circumstances.
I don't care how you do it.
He needs to be brought to heel.
What of Desmond Hart?
I don't know what's behind him yet
but his goal is, clearly,
to get close to the throne.
We cannot afford to lose the fleet.
Corrino is slipping through our grasp,
and he needs to be reminded of our value.
I'm speaking with him later tonight.
But first, I have to meet
with one of our contacts in Zimia.
So, you're descended from our founder?
I can't say you look much like her.
Mother Tula says what happened to Kasha
was a part of a reckoning
that threatens the Sisterhood.
They need Raquella to clarify her vision
to help them fight it.
I can be the link.
I owe them so much.
Don't be ridiculous.
They're using you.
It's all they tell us.
"Sisterhood above all."
Not Sisters.
They don't care about you.
Not like they care about
the Order as a whole.
I care about the Order too.
This is my home.
My family.
I believe in our mission.
Hard to have a mission when you're dead.
I'm sorry! Just tell me what I can do.
You can keep your mouth shut!
And go back to playing your baliset.
The proceeds from the Arrakis haul.
Not counting what your spice smugglers
took off the top.
Well, not everyone's motivated
by loyalty to the cause.
Look who it is.
Straighten up, everyone.
You're in the presence
of the Emperor's own Swordmaster.
Direct descendant
of distinguished war hero Vorian Atreides.
Shut up, Horace,
or I'll stick my distinguished foot
up your ass.
- How was the funeral?
- The whole palace was distracted.
I got the full layout,
even the throne room.
No one noticed a thing.
Good work.
We need one final piece.
Then we strike against Corrino himself.
Are you certain now's the right time?
The princess's wedding shattered.
There's a lot of sympathy
out there among people.
Sounds like someone's grown too accustomed
to the comforts of the palace.
Trading off that famous name to--
I pledged my sword
and my name to the rebellion
because the Great Houses
are hoarding spice,
forcing the people to turn to violence
to get what they need to survive.
If the only way to stop this is
to spill blood,
then don't doubt, for a second,
my allegiance to the cause.
See that Atreides fire?
That's the spirit we need
if we're gonna clear those criminals out
of the Landsraad.
We have been ground under their boots
for too long.
We need to announce this rebellion
in a way that cannot be ignored.
Let's get a drink.
He might trust you, but I saw you
the other night with the princess.
Be careful.
We can't afford any liabilities.
You know something?
All these years that I've grown up here
at the Sisterhood,
I used to pretend you were my mother.
Well, I'll tell you a secret, so did I.
Why do you think I gave you
my most precious keepsake?
I wish you could've known her.
You...
You knew my mother?
Yes.
Where is she now?
She died. I'm sorry.
She died giving birth.
Then, she would be there,
in my other memory.
You can't tame the other memory.
You can't predict what voices
will come when you unlock it.
It would be a lie if I promised you
that you would see your mother.
- But she could be?
- She could be.
But if you're not ready,
we can find other options.
Good to see you, Sister Mikaela.
I'm sorry the circumstances
aren't better.
I honestly couldn't
believe it when I heard.
You know, I idolized Kasha.
All that power she wielded
at the Emperor's side
instead of in the shadows.
The shadows hold power too.
I know that now.
The push and pull.
We empower the Great Houses
to maintain order
and allow rebellion
to keep that power in check.
The rebel attack on the harvester
was a beautiful manipulation.
Thank you.
But now,
I need the names of all the rebels
involved in the raids on Arrakis.
Wait, you wanna burn the whole cell?
Well, we have to shore up
our influence,
assuage the Emperor's fears.
His weakness is no longer an advantage.
We have to bolster him now
to ward off the predators.
You can start with their spy
in the palace.
Name's Keiran Atreides.
Atreides?
What, does that pose an issue?
No.
Nice maneuver.
Clearly, you've been practicin'.
Just nothin' I taught you.
Don't know whether to be offended
or impressed.
Kasha taught me a few moves
to get me prepared
for when I enter the school.
Do you wanna talk about it?
I don't wanna talk.
Then let's not talk.
- Did I hurt you?
- I'm fine.
I just keep seeing them.
Kasha and Pruwet.
He was just a kid.
When I was his age,
my father faced a rebellion
on one of the far planets.
I remember. The Broken Chain.
They were one world. A moon, actually.
They could hardly hold their own
against the Imperial Army.
So, one night,
some of them broke into the palace
and stole me from my bed.
Constantine couldn't stop them
so he told them to take him too.
I've never heard this before.
My parents didn't want to look weak
to the Great Houses,
so they covered it up.
And Constantine,
he never speaks about it.
It was all politics.
We are all just pieces on the board
to be played in the pursuit of power
and spice.
We can't.
It was one thing when
I was leaving the planet, but...
You're right.
Be bad for both of us.
Are you a prophet, Desmond Hart?
Not long ago, I would've laughed at that.
I believed in nothing.
And now?
I don't know.
There are things that I can do...
beautiful...
terrible things.
I think if you were given a gift
you should use it,
lest it be taken away.
Duke Richese is reclaiming his fleet
and has threatened to seize Arrakis.
Why not just deliver you to him
and solve all our problems?
I am still a soldier.
I am at your mercy and your command.
Why not let me show you
how I would humble those
who tried to take from you,
or sway you with corrupt counsel?
Crisis, survival,
advancement.
Our founder, Mother Raquella,
was poisoned.
To survive, she harnessed
her body's own chemistry,
transmuting the toxins
on a cellular level.
In doing so,
she awakened something deeper.
The voices of her mother,
her mother's mother, back and back,
until all of the women
who had come before her
opened their minds to her and spoke.
Lila Cho Grace Na-Berto Anirul...
it is time to awaken those who made you.
It is an Agony, but only this once.
When you find yourself in the darkness,
seek the light.
Your foremothers will waken wild, hungry.
Do not let them sway you.
All that matters is the light.
It will lead you back to life.
Back to us.
And you will emerge
a Reverend Mother.
For this poison, there is no antidote.
Still your breath, focus your mind,
and unlock your other memory.
Just follow my voice.
Let it guide you, and breathe.
Breathe in.
Breathe in!
Break down the poison,
so there is nothing but molecules.
That's it, Sister.
Breathe out.
Release the energy.
Let it fuel you.
Raquella.
The key to the reckoning...
...is one born twice. Once...
...in blood...
...once in spice.
One born twice. Who is that?
A revenant full of scars.
A weapon born of war...
...on a path too short.
What is the nature of their power?
How do we fight it?
What's happening?
Raquella!
We walk together, hand-in-hand,
with only one light to guide us.
Our steps are short. We do not falter.
We know we will be born into the infinite.
Raquella!
My little lamb.
Mother.
Is that you?
Is that what they told you?
To get you to come?
I'm sorry, granddaughter.
She is not here.
But I've been waiting for you.
Stop!
Harkonnen,
you stole my future.
Now I'm taking your hope.
Lila, get out of there!
Follow my voice!
The light!
You've got to get out of there!
Lila.
Lila, no!
No, Lila, come back. Please, Lila.
I know how it feels to lose a child.
There is no worse pain.
But to levy threats against my family,
to rescind the deal we made for the fleet,
that cannot be ignored.
You weak fool.
You think you can silence me?
I will tear you from that throne
and feed you to the wolves
and let them choke on you!
Who the hell are you?
It's you, you're the--
- What is he doing?
- What?
Please, make it stop!
Please, mercy! Mercy.
Mercy!
Return home, bury your son.
Say nothing of what transpired here.
We'll let these
tragic circumstances fade from history.
Mother Superior.
It would appear the sands
have shifted in my absence.
Well, I am a hard man
to keep chained.
I need to speak with Emperor Corrino.
I have word on the rebel threat.
Unfortunately, House Corrino
no longer requires your services.
Your privileges at the palace have
been revoked.
That's your game.
You think you can replace me?
- What do you want?
- I told you what I want.
I want what's best for the Imperium.
And that is to wipe out every trace of you
and your Sisters from our worlds.
I run a school for young women.
- We're not a threat to anyone.
- We both know that is not true.
You mistake me for someone afraid.
I'm not a nine-year-old boy.
And neither was Kasha Jinjo.
Stop! Take out your blade!
Hold it to your neck!
Now drive it into your throat.
Drive it into your throat!
I always wondered what
your greatest fear would be.
Now I have seen it.
It's not that no one will hear you.
It's that they'll hear you
and just won't care.